apps/docs/content/docs/headless/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Getting started with core library
---

## Introduction

The core of Fumadocs, built for
App Router. It offers server-side functions and headless components.

- Search (built-in: Flexsearch, Algolia Search)
- Breadcrumb, Sidebar, TOC Components
- Remark/Rehype Plugins
- Additional utilities

<Callout title="Tip">

    Fumadocs Core can be used without Fumadocs UI, in other words, it's headless.

    For beginners and normal usages, use [Fumadocs UI](/docs/ui).

</Callout>

```package-install
fumadocs-core
```

## Setup

### Choose a Source

It has native support for [Fumadocs MDX](/docs/mdx) and ContentLayer, but any kind of formats and
sources are allowed.

You can refer to this [guide](/docs/headless/contentlayer) to learn how to
use Contentlayer with `fumadocs-core`.

### Build Page Tree

A page tree refers to the structured data of all pages. It is essential for implementing a sidebar, or other navigation elements.

You can generate the tree using our built-in [Source API](/docs/headless/source-api), the adapter for your content source, or end up with
writing your own.

### Create MDX file

Create `/content/docs/index.mdx`:

```mdx
---
title: Quick Start
description: My cool docs
---

Hello World
```

### Styling & Fun

Start styling your docs with headless components.

```mdx
<article>
  <nav>
    <p>My App</p>
    <SearchToggle />
  </nav>
  <Sidebar />
  <MDXContent />
  <TOC />
</article>
```

### Enjoy!

It offers simple document searching as well as components for building a
good docs. It is made for flexibility and speed.

<Cards>

<Card
  title="Breadcrumb"
  href="/docs/headless/components/breadcrumb"
  description="The navigation component at the top of screen"
/>

<Card
  title="TOC"
  href="/docs/headless/components/toc"
  description="A Table of Contents with active anchor observer"
/>

<Card
  title="Sidebar"
  href="/docs/headless/components/sidebar"
  description="The navigation bar at aside of viewport"
/>

<Card
  title="Search"
  href="/docs/headless/search"
  description="Implement document searching"
/>

</Cards>

Commit message:

Docs: Remove legacy Contentlayer docs

apps/docs/content/docs/headless/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Getting started with core library
---

## Introduction

The core of Fumadocs, built for
App Router. It offers server-side functions and headless components.

- Search (built-in: Flexsearch, Algolia Search)
- Breadcrumb, Sidebar, TOC Components
- Remark/Rehype Plugins
- Additional utilities

<Callout title="Tip">

    Fumadocs Core can be used without Fumadocs UI, in other words, it's headless.

    For beginners and normal usages, use [Fumadocs UI](/docs/ui).

</Callout>

```package-install
fumadocs-core
```

## Setup

### Choose a Source

We have native support for [Fumadocs MDX](/docs/mdx) and [Content Collections](/docs/headless/content-collections), but all formats and
content sources have be supported via a custom adapter.

### Build Page Tree

A page tree refers to the structured data of all pages. It is essential for implementing a sidebar, or other navigation elements.

You can generate the tree using our built-in [Source API](/docs/headless/source-api), the adapter for your content source, or end up with
writing your own.

### Create MDX file

Create `/content/docs/index.mdx`:

```mdx
---
title: Quick Start
description: My cool docs
---

Hello World
```

### Styling & Fun

Start styling your docs with headless components.

```mdx
<article>
  <nav>
    <p>My App</p>
    <SearchToggle />
  </nav>
  <Sidebar />
  <MDXContent />
  <TOC />
</article>
```

### Enjoy!

It offers simple document searching as well as components for building a
good docs. It is made for flexibility and speed.

<Cards>

<Card
  title="Breadcrumb"
  href="/docs/headless/components/breadcrumb"
  description="The navigation component at the top of screen"
/>

<Card
  title="TOC"
  href="/docs/headless/components/toc"
  description="A Table of Contents with active anchor observer"
/>

<Card
  title="Sidebar"
  href="/docs/headless/components/sidebar"
  description="The navigation bar at aside of viewport"
/>

<Card
  title="Search"
  href="/docs/headless/search"
  description="Implement document searching"
/>

</Cards>
