apps/docs/content/docs/headless/internationalization.mdx, before:

---
title: Internationalization
description: Support multiple languages in your documentation
icon: Globe
---

> Read the [Next.js Docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) to learn more about implementing I18n in Next.js.

## Setup

Define the i18n configurations in a file, we will import it with `@/i18n` in this guide.

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/i18n.ts",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "ts",
    "meta": "title=\"i18n.ts\""
  }
}
```

### Source API

Change your current source configurations.

```ts title="source.ts"
import { i18n } from '@/i18n';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const { getPage, getPages, pageTree, getLanguages } = loader({
  i18n,
  // other options
});
```

Update the usages to your source:

```ts
import { getPage, getPages, pageTree } from '@/app/source';

// get page tree
pageTree[params.lang];

// get page
getPage(params.slug, params.lang);

// get pages
getPages(params.lang);
```

### Middleware

Create a middleware that redirects users to appropriate locale.

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/middleware.ts",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "ts",
    "meta": "title=\"middleware.ts\""
  }
}
```

### Root Layout

Create a dynamic route `/app/[lang]`, and move all special files to
the folder.

<HeadlessOnly>

```tsx title="app/[lang]/layout.tsx"
export default function Layout({
  params,
  children,
}: {
  params: { lang: string };
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html lang={params.lang}>
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

</HeadlessOnly>

<UIOnly>

A `I18nProvider` is needed for localization. Wrap the root provider inside your I18n provider.

```tsx
import { RootProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/provider';
import { I18nProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/i18n';

export default function RootLayout({
  params,
  children,
}: {
  params: { lang: string };
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html lang={params.lang}>
      <body>
        <I18nProvider locale={params.lang}>
          <RootProvider>{children}</RootProvider>
        </I18nProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

</UIOnly>

### Docs Page

Make sure to configure **Static Generation** correctly for your pages.

The `generateStaticParams` function should return an item for every page in different languages.
On Fumadocs UI, it looks like:

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/app/[lang]/[[...slug]]/page.tsx",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "tsx",
    "meta": "title=\"page.tsx\""
  }
}
```

### Writing Documents

<UIOnly>

    see [Page Conventions](/docs/ui/page-conventions#internationalization) to learn how to organize your documents.

</UIOnly>

<HeadlessOnly>

    see [Page Conventions](/docs/headless/page-conventions#internationalization) to learn how to organize your documents.

</HeadlessOnly>

### Search

Configure i18n on your search solution. For Flexsearch, see [Setup I18n](/docs/headless/search/flexsearch#internationalization).

## Configurations

You can also customise the i18n middleware from `i18n.ts`.

### Hide Locale Prefix

To hide the locale prefix, for example, use `/` instead of `/en` where `en` is the default locale, use the `hideLocale` option.

| Mode             | Description                     |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `always`         | Always hide the prefix          |
| `default-locale` | Only hide the default locale    |
| `never`          | Never hide the prefix (default) |

> It uses `NextResponse.rewrite` under the hood.

```ts
import type { I18nConfig } from 'fumadocs-core/i18n';

export const i18n: I18nConfig = {
  defaultLanguage: 'en',
  languages: ['en', 'cn'],
  hideLocale: 'default-locale',
};
```

<UIOnly>

### Adding Translations

We only provide English translation by default, you have to pass your translations to the provider.

```tsx
import { I18nProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/i18n';

<I18nProvider
  locales={[
    {
      name: 'English',
      locale: 'en',
    },
    {
      name: 'Chinese',
      locale: 'cn',
    },
  ]}
  translations={
    {
      cn: {
        search: 'Translated Content',
      },
    }[locale]
  }
  // other props
/>;
```

### Add Language Switch

To allow users changing their language, enable `i18n` on docs layout.

```tsx title="[lang]/docs/layout.tsx"
import { DocsLayout } from 'fumadocs-ui/layout';

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return <DocsLayout i18n>{children}</DocsLayout>;
}
```

</UIOnly>

Commit message:

Core & UI: Use cookie to store active locale on `always` mode

apps/docs/content/docs/headless/internationalization.mdx, after:

---
title: Internationalization
description: Support multiple languages in your documentation
icon: Globe
---

> Read the [Next.js Docs](https://nextjs.org/docs/app/building-your-application/routing/internationalization) to learn more about implementing I18n in Next.js.

## Setup

Define the i18n configurations in a file, we will import it with `@/i18n` in this guide.

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/i18n.ts",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "ts",
    "meta": "title=\"i18n.ts\""
  }
}
```

### Source API

Change your current source configurations.

```ts title="source.ts"
import { i18n } from '@/i18n';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const { getPage, getPages, pageTree, getLanguages } = loader({
  i18n,
  // other options
});
```

Update the usages to your source:

```ts
import { getPage, getPages, pageTree } from '@/app/source';

// get page tree
pageTree[params.lang];

// get page
getPage(params.slug, params.lang);

// get pages
getPages(params.lang);
```

### Middleware

Create a middleware that redirects users to appropriate locale.

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/middleware.ts",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "ts",
    "meta": "title=\"middleware.ts\""
  }
}
```

### Root Layout

Create a dynamic route `/app/[lang]`, and move all special files to
the folder.

<HeadlessOnly>

```tsx title="app/[lang]/layout.tsx"
export default function Layout({
  params,
  children,
}: {
  params: { lang: string };
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html lang={params.lang}>
      <body>{children}</body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

</HeadlessOnly>

<UIOnly>

A `I18nProvider` is needed for localization. Wrap the root provider inside your I18n provider.

```tsx
import { RootProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/provider';
import { I18nProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/i18n';

export default function RootLayout({
  params,
  children,
}: {
  params: { lang: string };
  children: React.ReactNode;
}) {
  return (
    <html lang={params.lang}>
      <body>
        <I18nProvider locale={params.lang}>
          <RootProvider>{children}</RootProvider>
        </I18nProvider>
      </body>
    </html>
  );
}
```

</UIOnly>

### Docs Page

Make sure to configure **Static Generation** correctly for your pages.

The `generateStaticParams` function should return an item for every page in different languages.
On Fumadocs UI, it looks like:

```json doc-gen:file
{
  "file": "../../examples/i18n/app/[lang]/[[...slug]]/page.tsx",
  "codeblock": {
    "lang": "tsx",
    "meta": "title=\"page.tsx\""
  }
}
```

### Writing Documents

<UIOnly>

    see [Page Conventions](/docs/ui/page-conventions#internationalization) to learn how to organize your documents.

</UIOnly>

<HeadlessOnly>

    see [Page Conventions](/docs/headless/page-conventions#internationalization) to learn how to organize your documents.

</HeadlessOnly>

### Search

Configure i18n on your search solution. For Flexsearch, see [Setup I18n](/docs/headless/search/flexsearch#internationalization).

## Configurations

You can also customise the i18n middleware from `i18n.ts`.

### Hide Locale Prefix

To hide the locale prefix, for example, use `/` instead of `/en`, use the `hideLocale` option.

| Mode             | Description                                        |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
| `always`         | Always hide the prefix, detect locale from cookies |
| `default-locale` | Only hide the default locale                       |
| `never`          | Never hide the prefix (default)                    |

> It uses `NextResponse.rewrite` under the hood.

```ts
import type { I18nConfig } from 'fumadocs-core/i18n';

export const i18n: I18nConfig = {
  defaultLanguage: 'en',
  languages: ['en', 'cn'],
  hideLocale: 'default-locale',
};
```

#### `always`

It's highly **unrecommended** to use `always`.
On this mode, locale is stored as a cookie, read and set on the middleware.

This may cause undesired cache problems on your hosting platform, and need to pay extra attention on SEO to ensure search engines can index your pages correctly.

<UIOnly>

### Adding Translations

We only provide English translation by default, you have to pass your translations to the provider.

```tsx
import { I18nProvider } from 'fumadocs-ui/i18n';

<I18nProvider
  locales={[
    {
      name: 'English',
      locale: 'en',
    },
    {
      name: 'Chinese',
      locale: 'cn',
    },
  ]}
  translations={
    {
      cn: {
        search: 'Translated Content',
      },
    }[locale]
  }
  // other props
/>;
```

### Add Language Switch

To allow users changing their language, enable `i18n` on docs layout.

```tsx title="[lang]/docs/layout.tsx"
import { DocsLayout } from 'fumadocs-ui/layout';

export default function Layout({ children }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return <DocsLayout i18n>{children}</DocsLayout>;
}
```

</UIOnly>
