apps/docs/content/docs/headless/page-tree.mdx, before:

---
title: Page Tree
description: The structure of page tree.
---

Page tree is a tree that includes all the pages, separator and folders.

It will be sent to the client and being referenced in the sidebar or breadcrumb.
Hence, you shouldn't store any sensitive or large data in page tree.

<Callout title="Note">
  Unserializable data such as functions can't be passed to page tree.
</Callout>

## Conventions

Items can be either a separator, page or folder.

### Page

It contains a url, an optional icon and display name.

```json
{
  "type": "page",
  "name": "Quick Start",
  "url": "/docs"
}
```

### Folder

It contains a display name, an optional icon, a list of items and the index page if exists.

```json
{
    "type": "folder",
    "name": "Guide",
    "index": {
        "type": "page",
        ...
    }
    "children": [
        ...
    ]
}
```

#### As Root

To implement multiple page trees, you can add a `root` property to the folder node. The nearest root folder of current page will be used as the root of page tree.

### Separator

It only contains a display name.

```json
{
  "type": "separator",
  "name": "Components"
}
```

### Icons

Icon is a `ReactElement`, supported by pages and folders.

### Example

```js
export const tree = [
  {
    type: 'page',
    name: 'Quick Start',
    url: '/docs',
  },
  {
    type: 'separator',
    name: 'Guides',
  },
  {
    type: 'page',
    name: 'Example',
    url: '/docs/example',
  },
];
```

### Type Bindings

You can import the type from server package.

```ts
import type { PageTree } from 'fumadocs-core/server'

const tree: PageTree = ...
```

Commit message:

Docs: Introduce new page tree conventions

apps/docs/content/docs/headless/page-tree.mdx, after:

---
title: Page Tree
description: The structure of page tree.
---

Page tree is a tree that includes all the pages, separator and folders.

It will be sent to the client and being referenced in the sidebar or breadcrumb.
Hence, you shouldn't store any sensitive or large data in page tree.

<Callout title="Note">
  Unserializable data such as functions can't be passed to page tree.
</Callout>

## Conventions

### Root

The initial root of page trees.

<AutoTypeTable path='headless' name='PageTreeRoot' />

### Page

It contains a url, an optional icon and display name.

```json
{
  "type": "page",
  "name": "Quick Start",
  "url": "/docs"
}
```

> External urls are also supported

<AutoTypeTable path='headless' name='PageTreeItem' />

### Folder

A folder containing a list of nodes.

```json
{
    "type": "folder",
    "name": "Guide",
    "index": {
        "type": "page",
        ...
    }
    "children": [
        ...
    ]
}
```

<AutoTypeTable path='headless' name='PageTreeFolder' />

#### As Root

To implement multiple page trees, you can add a `root` property to the folder node. The nearest root folder of current page will be used as the root of page tree.

### Separator

A label between items.

```json
{
  "type": "separator",
  "name": "Components"
}
```

<AutoTypeTable path='headless' name='PageTreeSeparator' />

## Icons

Icon is a `ReactElement`, supported by pages and folders.

## Type Bindings

You can import the type from server package.

```ts
import type { PageTree } from 'fumadocs-core/server'

const tree: PageTree = ...
```
