apps/docs/content/blog/mdx-v10-summary.mdx, before:

---
title: Fumadocs MDX v10 Summary
description: Migration Guide and Summary
date: 2024-11-24
author: Fuma Nama
---

## Features

- More customisations via `source.config.ts`, a new config file for your content.
- Introduced **collections**.
- Turbopack support.
- Build-time data validation support.

## Migrate from v9

### Refactor Imports

Refactor the import in `next.config`.

**From:**

```ts
import createMDX from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

const withMDX = createMDX();

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const config = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
};

export default withMDX(config);
```

**To:**

```ts
import { createMDX } from 'fumadocs-mdx/next';

const withMDX = createMDX();

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const config = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
};

export default withMDX(config);
```

### Remove `mdx-components.tsx`

`mdx-components.tsx` is no longer used. It now allows only MDX components passed from `MDX` body's `components` prop.

```tsx
import defaultMdxComponents from 'fumadocs-ui/mdx';

const MDX = page.data.body;

// set your MDX components with `components` prop
<MDX components={{ ...defaultMdxComponents }} />;
```

This encouraged explicit import of MDX components.

Previously, `mdx-components.tsx` worked by injecting an import to every compiled Markdown/MDX file.
It's a little unnecessary because you can always import the components explicitly, or replace default HTML tags like `img` from MDX body's `components` prop.

### Define Collections

Collection is now introduced on source config file (`source.config.ts`).
It refers to a collection of files/content, like Markdown files, or JSON/YAML files.

Every collection has its own config, you can have customised Zod schema to validate its data, or collection-level MDX options for content collections.

You can create a source config file, and add the following:

```ts
import { defineDocs } from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

export const { docs, meta } = defineDocs({
  dir: 'content/docs',
});
```

`defineDocs` declares two collections, one with `doc` type that scans content files (e.g. `md/mdx`), one with `meta` type that scans meta files (e.g. `json`).

Now you can generate types using `fumadocs-mdx` command, it's recommended to set it as a `postinstall` script.

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "postinstall": "fumadocs-mdx"
  }
}
```

Starting the development server, a `.source` folder will be generated, it contains all parsed collections/files.
You can add it to `.gitignore`, it will replace the old `.map` file.

To access the collections, import them from the folder with their original name in `source.config.ts`.

```ts
import { docs, meta } from '@/.source';
```

Now to integrate it with Fumadocs framework, change your `source.ts` from:

```ts
import { map } from '@/.map';
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const { getPage, getPages, pageTree } = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  rootDir: 'docs',
  source: createMDXSource(map),
});
```

to:

```ts
import { docs, meta } from '@/.source';
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const source = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  source: createMDXSource(docs, meta),
});
```

- we now recommend to export the output of `loader` directly as a single variable.
- schema option is no longer defined in `source.ts`, it's handled by `source.config.ts`.
- it takes two collections: `docs` (content) and `meta` (`meta.json`).
  You can leave `meta` as an empty array if it is unused, so you can define only a collection for `docs`.

### `page.data`

When using with `loader`, you no longer need `data.frontmatter` to access frontmatter data.
It is merged into the `page.data` object.

```ts
page.data.frontmatter.title; // [!code --]
page.data.title; // [!code ++]
```

### MDX Options

Instead of passing them to `next.config` file, define a global config in `source.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

export default defineConfig({
  mdxOptions: {
    // here!
  },
});
```

### Collection Schema

The `schema` option of collection allow you to customise the validation schema, it accepts a Zod type.

For `defineDocs`, see [`schema`](/docs/mdx/collections#schema-1).

### Multiple Types

Same as before, you can call `loader` multiple times for different types (e.g. for docs and blog).

```ts
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import type { InferMetaType, InferPageType } from 'fumadocs-core/source';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';
import { meta, docs, blog as blogPosts } from '@/.source';

export const source = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  source: createMDXSource(docs, meta),
});

export const blog = loader({
  baseUrl: '/blog',
  // as mentioned before, you can leave `meta` an empty array
  source: createMDXSource(blogPosts, []),
});

export type DocsPage = InferPageType<typeof source>;
export type DocsMeta = InferMetaType<typeof source>;
```

and the corresponding `source.config.ts`:

```ts
import {
  defineDocs,
  defineCollections,
  frontmatterSchema,
} from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';
import { z } from 'zod';

export const { docs, meta } = defineDocs({
  dir: 'content/docs',
});

export const blog = defineCollections({
  type: 'doc',
  dir: 'content/blog',
  schema: frontmatterSchema.extend({
    author: z.string(),
    date: z.string().date().or(z.date()).optional(),
  }),
});
```

### Further Readings

You can read the latest docs of Fumadocs MDX for details.

<Cards>
  <Card href="/docs/mdx" title="Fumadocs MDX">
    The built-in content source, build a better content experience on Next.js.
  </Card>
</Cards>

Commit message:

Blog: Subtle spot fixes to make the blog a little more direct and fix grammatical errors

apps/docs/content/blog/mdx-v10-summary.mdx, after:

---
title: Fumadocs MDX v10 Summary
description: Migration Guide and Summary
date: 2024-11-24
author: Fuma Nama
---

## Features

- More customisations via `source.config.ts`, a new config file for your content.
- Introduced **collections**.
- Turbopack support.
- Build-time data validation support.

## Migrate from v9

### Refactor Imports

Refactor the import in `next.config`.

**From:**

```ts
import createMDX from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

const withMDX = createMDX();

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const config = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
};

export default withMDX(config);
```

**To:**

```ts
import { createMDX } from 'fumadocs-mdx/next';

const withMDX = createMDX();

/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const config = {
  reactStrictMode: true,
};

export default withMDX(config);
```

### Remove `mdx-components.tsx`

`mdx-components.tsx` is no longer used. It now allows only MDX components passed from `MDX` body's `components` prop.

```tsx
import defaultMdxComponents from 'fumadocs-ui/mdx';

const MDX = page.data.body;

// set your MDX components with `components` prop
<MDX components={{ ...defaultMdxComponents }} />;
```

This encourages explicit import of MDX components.

Previously, `mdx-components.tsx` worked by injecting an import to every compiled Markdown/MDX file.
It's somewhat unnecessary because you can always import the components explicitly, or replace default HTML tags like `img` from MDX body's `components` prop.

### Define Collections

Collection is now introduced on source config file (`source.config.ts`).
It refers to a collection of files/content, such as Markdown files or JSON/YAML files.

Every collection has its own config, you can have customised Zod schema to validate its data, or collection-level MDX options for content collections.

You can create a source config file, and add the following:

```ts
import { defineDocs } from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

export const { docs, meta } = defineDocs({
  dir: 'content/docs',
});
```

`defineDocs` declares two collections, one with `doc` type that scans content files (e.g. `md/mdx`), one with `meta` type that scans meta files (e.g. `json`).

Now you can generate types using `fumadocs-mdx` command, it's recommended to set it as a `postinstall` script.

```json title="package.json"
{
  "scripts": {
    "postinstall": "fumadocs-mdx"
  }
}
```

When starting the development server, a `.source` folder will be generated, it contains all parsed collections/files.
You can add it to `.gitignore`, it will replace the old `.map` file.

To access the collections, import them from the folder with their original name in `source.config.ts`.

```ts
import { docs, meta } from '@/.source';
```

Now to integrate it with Fumadocs framework, change your `source.ts` from:

```ts
import { map } from '@/.map';
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const { getPage, getPages, pageTree } = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  rootDir: 'docs',
  source: createMDXSource(map),
});
```

to:

```ts
import { docs, meta } from '@/.source';
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';

export const source = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  source: createMDXSource(docs, meta),
});
```

- we now recommend exporting the output of `loader` directly as a single variable.
- schema option is no longer defined in `source.ts`, it's handled by `source.config.ts`.
- it takes two collections: `docs` (content) and `meta` (`meta.json`).
  You can leave `meta` as an empty array if it is unused, so you can define only a collection for `docs`.

### `page.data`

When using with `loader`, you no longer need `data.frontmatter` to access frontmatter data.
It is merged into the `page.data` object.

```ts
page.data.frontmatter.title; // [!code --]
page.data.title; // [!code ++]
```

### MDX Options

Instead of passing them to `next.config` file, define a global config in `source.config.ts`:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';

export default defineConfig({
  mdxOptions: {
    // here!
  },
});
```

### Collection Schema

The `schema` option of collection allow you to customise the validation schema, it accepts a Zod type.

For `defineDocs`, see [`schema`](/docs/mdx/collections#schema-1).

### Multiple Types

Same as before, you can call `loader` multiple times for different types (e.g. for docs and blog).

```ts
import { createMDXSource } from 'fumadocs-mdx';
import type { InferMetaType, InferPageType } from 'fumadocs-core/source';
import { loader } from 'fumadocs-core/source';
import { meta, docs, blog as blogPosts } from '@/.source';

export const source = loader({
  baseUrl: '/docs',
  source: createMDXSource(docs, meta),
});

export const blog = loader({
  baseUrl: '/blog',
  // as mentioned before, you can leave `meta` an empty array
  source: createMDXSource(blogPosts, []),
});

export type DocsPage = InferPageType<typeof source>;
export type DocsMeta = InferMetaType<typeof source>;
```

and the corresponding `source.config.ts`:

```ts
import {
  defineDocs,
  defineCollections,
  frontmatterSchema,
} from 'fumadocs-mdx/config';
import { z } from 'zod';

export const { docs, meta } = defineDocs({
  dir: 'content/docs',
});

export const blog = defineCollections({
  type: 'doc',
  dir: 'content/blog',
  schema: frontmatterSchema.extend({
    author: z.string(),
    date: z.string().date().or(z.date()).optional(),
  }),
});
```

### Further Readings

You can read the latest docs of Fumadocs MDX for details.

<Cards>
  <Card href="/docs/mdx" title="Fumadocs MDX">
    The built-in content source, build a better content experience on Next.js.
  </Card>
</Cards>
