apps/docs/content/docs/headless/mdx/remark-image.mdx, before:

---
title: Remark Image
description: Make images compatible with Next.js Image Optimization
---

## Usage

Add it to your Remark plugins.

```ts title="MDX Compiler"
import { compile } from '@mdx-js/mdx';
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

await compile('...', {
  remarkPlugins: [remarkImage],
});
```

> This plugin is included by default on Fumadocs MDX.

Supported:

- Local Images
- External URLs
- Next.js static imports

### How It Works

It transforms your `![image](/test.png)` into Next.js Image usage, and add required props like `width` and `height`.

By default, it uses **static imports** to import local images, which supports the `placeholder` option of Next.js Image.
Next.js can handle image imports with its built-in image loader.

Otherwise, it uses the file system or an HTTP request to download the image and obtain its size.

### Options

<AutoTypeTable
  path="./content/docs/headless/props.ts"
  name="RemarkImageOptions"
/>

### Example: With Imports

```mdx
![Hello](/hello.png)
![Test](https://example.com/image.png)
```

Yields:

```mdx
import HelloImage from './public/hello.png';

<img alt="Hello" src={HelloImage} />
<img
  alt="Test"
  src="https://example.com/image.png"
  width="1980"
  height="1080"
/>
```

Where `./public/hello.png` points to the image in public directory.

### Example: Without Imports

You can disable Next.js static imports on local images.

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [[remarkImage, { useImport: false }]],
};
```

```mdx
![Hello](/hello.png)
![Test](https://example.com/image.png)
```

Yields:

```mdx
<img alt="Hello" src="/hello.png" width="1980" height="1080" />
<img
  alt="Test"
  src="https://example.com/image.png"
  width="1980"
  height="1080"
/>
```

### Example: Relative Paths

When `useImport` is enabled, you can reference local images using relative paths.

```mdx
![Hello](./hello.png)
```

Be careful that using it with `useImport` disabled **doesn't work**.
Next.js will not add the image to public assets unless you have imported it in code.
For images in public directory, you can just reference them without relative paths.

### Example: Public Directory

Customise the path of public directory

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';
import path from 'node:path';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [
    remarkImage,
    {
      publicDir: path.join(process.cwd(), 'dir'),
    },
  ],
};
```

You can pass a URL too.

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [
    remarkImage,
    {
      publicDir: 'http://localhost:3000/images',
    },
  ],
};
```

Commit message:

Docs: improve guides for other React frameworks

apps/docs/content/docs/headless/mdx/remark-image.mdx, after:

---
title: Remark Image
description: Adding size attributes to images.
---

This plugin adds `width` and `height` attributes to your image elements, which is needed for Image Optimization on Next.js and some other frameworks.

## Usage

Add it to your Remark plugins.

```ts title="MDX Compiler"
import { compile } from '@mdx-js/mdx';
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

await compile('...', {
  remarkPlugins: [remarkImage],
});
```

> This plugin is included by default on Fumadocs MDX.

Supported:

- Local Images
- External URLs
- Next.js static imports

### How It Works

For Next.js, it uses **static imports** to import local images, which supports the `placeholder` option of Next.js Image.
Next.js can handle image imports with its built-in image loader.

Otherwise, it uses the file system or an HTTP request to download the image and obtain its size.

### Options

<AutoTypeTable
  path="./content/docs/headless/props.ts"
  name="RemarkImageOptions"
/>

### Example: With Imports

```mdx
![Hello](/hello.png)
![Test](https://example.com/image.png)
```

Yields:

```mdx
import HelloImage from './public/hello.png';

<img alt="Hello" src={HelloImage} />
<img
  alt="Test"
  src="https://example.com/image.png"
  width="1980"
  height="1080"
/>
```

Where `./public/hello.png` points to the image in public directory.

### Example: Without Imports

For Next.js, you can disable static imports on local images.

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [[remarkImage, { useImport: false }]],
};
```

```mdx
![Hello](/hello.png)
![Test](https://example.com/image.png)
```

Yields:

```mdx
<img alt="Hello" src="/hello.png" width="1980" height="1080" />
<img
  alt="Test"
  src="https://example.com/image.png"
  width="1980"
  height="1080"
/>
```

### Example: Relative Paths

When `useImport` is enabled, you can reference local images using relative paths.

```mdx
![Hello](./hello.png)
```

Be careful that using it with `useImport` disabled **doesn't work**.
Next.js will not add the image to public assets unless you have imported it in code.
For images in public directory, you can just reference them without relative paths.

### Example: Public Directory

Customise the path of public directory

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';
import path from 'node:path';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [
    remarkImage,
    {
      publicDir: path.join(process.cwd(), 'dir'),
    },
  ],
};
```

You can pass a URL too.

```ts
import { remarkImage } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [
    remarkImage,
    {
      publicDir: 'https://my-cdn.com/images',
    },
  ],
};
```
