apps/docs/content/docs/headless/mdx/structure.mdx, before:

---
title: Remark Structure
description: Extract information from your documents, useful for implementing document search
---

## Usage

Add it as a remark plugin.

```ts
import { remarkStructure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [remarkStructure],
};
```

Extracted information could be found in `vfile.data.structuredData`, you may
write your own plugin to convert it into a MDX export.

### Options

```json doc-gen:typescript
{
  "name": "StructureOptions",
  "file": "./content/docs/headless/props.ts"
}
```

### Output

A list of headings and contents. Paragraphs will be extracted to the `contents`
array, each item contains a `heading` prop indicating the heading of paragraph.

<Callout title="Note">A heading can have multiple paragraphs.</Callout>

#### Heading

| Prop      |                                     |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `id`      | unique identifer or slug of heading |
| `content` | Text content                        |

#### Content

| Prop      |                                 |
| --------- | ------------------------------- |
| `heading` | Heading of paragraph (nullable) |
| `content` | Text content                    |

## As a Function

Accepts MDX/markdown content and return structurized data.

```ts
import { structure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

structure(page.body.raw);
```

<Callout title="Tip" className="mt-4">
If you have custom remark plugins enabled, such as
`remark-math`, you have to manually structure the document with these
plugins passed into the function:

```ts
import { structure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';
import remarkMath from 'remark-math';

structure(page.body.raw, [remarkMath]);
```

</Callout>

### Parameters

| Parameter       |                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------- |
| `content`       | MDX/markdown content   |
| `remarkPlugins` | List of remark plugins |
| `options`       | Custom options         |

Commit message:

v12 (#437)
* UI: New layout

* Update dependency turbo to v1.13.4

* Core: Support code syntax in headings

* Improve UI

* UI: Support switching between page trees with `RootToggle` component

* Add missing changesets

* Core: Remove `minWidth` deprecated option

* UI: Improve multiple page tree logic

* UI: Improve docs page without TOC

* UI: Improve client bundle size

* Core: Support attaching custom properties during page tree builder process

* Docs: Introduce new APIs

* UI: Support translation for theme label

* Fix type errors

* Add changesets

* Fix lint problems

* OpenAPI: Fix nullable types cannot be detected

* UI: Fix layout issues

* UI: Close sidebar conditionally on navigation

* UI: Improve color themes

* UI: Heading support typography styles

* UI: Fix sidebar not closing when using search dialog

* CLI: Add `layout.config.tsx` for sharing layout options

* Docs: Improve the content

* Docs: Add guide for writing markdown

* Docs: Inject shared i18n guide to UI i18n guide

* UI: Replace <LanguageSelect /> component with <LanguageToggle />

* Improve changesets

* Docs: Improve markdown section

* Remove unused .env variables

* Remove unused .env variables

* Turbo: Include environment variables

* CI: Upgrade pnpm to 9.2.0 (#436)

* Version Packages (#429)

---------

Co-authored-by: renovate[bot] <29139614+renovate[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/content/docs/headless/mdx/structure.mdx, after:

---
title: Remark Structure
description: Extract information from your documents, useful for implementing document search
---

## Usage

Add it as a remark plugin.

```ts
import { remarkStructure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

export default {
  remarkPlugins: [remarkStructure],
};
```

Extracted information could be found in `vfile.data.structuredData`, you may
write your own plugin to convert it into a MDX export.

### Options

```json doc-gen:typescript
{
  "name": "StructureOptions",
  "file": "./content/docs/headless/props.ts"
}
```

### Output

A list of headings and contents. Paragraphs will be extracted to the `contents`
array, each item contains a `heading` prop indicating the heading of paragraph.

<Callout title="Note">A heading can have multiple paragraphs.</Callout>

#### Heading

| Prop      |                                     |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| `id`      | unique identifer or slug of heading |
| `content` | Text content                        |

#### Content

| Prop      |                                 |
| --------- | ------------------------------- |
| `heading` | Heading of paragraph (nullable) |
| `content` | Text content                    |

## As a Function

Accepts MDX/markdown content and return structurized data.

```ts
import { structure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';

structure(page.body.raw);
```

<Callout title="Tip" className="mt-4">
If you have custom remark plugins enabled, such as
`remark-math`, you have to pass these plugins to the function. This avoids unreadable content on paragraphs.

```ts
import { structure } from 'fumadocs-core/mdx-plugins';
import remarkMath from 'remark-math';

structure(page.body.raw, [remarkMath]);
```

</Callout>

### Parameters

| Parameter       |                        |
| --------------- | ---------------------- |
| `content`       | MDX/markdown content   |
| `remarkPlugins` | List of remark plugins |
| `options`       | Custom options         |
