apps/docs/content/docs/ui/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Getting Started with Fumadocs
icon: Album
---

## Introduction

Fumadocs can be broken down into two parts: Core and UI.

**Core** handles most of the logic, from search functionality, to MDX plugins.

**Fumadocs UI**, the official user interface for Fumadocs.

### Terminology

For a better understanding of the docs, there are some common terminologies you should know:

**Content Source:** The source of your content, for example, Fumadocs MDX, MDXTS and ContentLayer are examples of content source.

**Page Tree:** A tree of all the pages, separators and folders. It is essential for navigation elements. See [Page Tree](/docs/headless/page-tree).

You might need to be familiar with Next.js App Router to continue.

## Automatic Installation

Create a new app with `create-fumadocs-app`.

<InstallTabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']}>
    <Tab value='npm'>

```bash
npx create-fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value="pnpm">

```bash
pnpm create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value='yarn'>

```bash
yarn create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value='bun'>

```bash
bun create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>

</InstallTabs>

It will initialize a new fumadocs app, now you can start hacking!

### Enjoy!

Now, create your first mdx file in the docs folder.

```mdx title="content/docs/index.mdx"
---
title: Hello World
---

## Yo what's up
```

Run the app in development mode and see http://localhost:3000/docs.

```package-install
npm run dev
```

### FAQ

<Accordions>
    <Accordion id='why-fumadocs-ui' title="Why Fumadocs UI?">

        Feel free to open the demo in CodeSandbox and see if it suits you.

        - Many built-in components
        - Integrations with Typescript Twoslash, OpenAPI, Math
        - Flexible and Fast by default
        - Built on App Router
        - Use it in an existing Next.js project, without refactoring anything.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-turborepo-styling' title="How to fix Turborepo stylings not being applied?">

        Turborepo, keeps all installed packages from the `apps` folder in the root directory of your project.
        This means that when using Tailwind, it will not be able to find the `DocsLayout` from the package `fumadocs-ui`
        which contains the styling.

        To fix this, edit the `tailwind.config.js` and replace `./node_modules` with `../../node_modules` in the `content` section.

        Before:
        ```
          content: [
            './node_modules/fumadocs-ui/dist/**/*.js',
            './components/**/*.{ts,tsx}',
            ...
          ],
        ```

        After:
        ```
          content: [
            '../../node_modules/fumadocs-ui/dist/**/*.js',
            './components/**/*.{ts,tsx}',
            ...
          ],
        ```
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-supports-color' title="How to fix 'supports-color' error?">

        If you got this error:

        ```
        Module not found: Can't resolve 'supports-color' in '.../node_modules/debug/src'
        ```

        This error sometimes appear when you are using ContentLayer, usually installing `supports-color@8.1.1` can fix the problem.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-dot-map-error' title="How to fix '@/.map' error?">

        If you are using Fumadocs MDX, the `.map.ts` file will be generated automatically once you start the dev server.

        For more information, see [Setup Guide](/docs/mdx).

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='dynamic-route' title="It uses Dynamic Route, will it be poor in performance?">

        Next.js turns dynamic route into static routes when `generateStaticParams` is configured.
        Hence, it is as fast as static pages.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='blog-usage' title="Can I use it for Blog?">

        The answer is yes.

        Fumadocs is built for documentation sites, yet, it is very flexible.
        You can re-use the typography styles and leverage its built-in remark/rehype plugins.
        Check our [blog](/blog), it is also built with Fumadocs.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='pronunciation' title='How to say Fumadocs?'>
        Fumadocs (Foo-ma docs).
    </Accordion>

</Accordions>

### Demo

Open in [CodeSandbox](https://githubbox.com/fuma-nama/fumadocs-ui-template).

## Learn More

New to here? Don't worry, we are welcome for your questions.

If you find anything confusing, please give your feedback on [Github Discussion](https://github.com/fuma-nama/fumadocs/discussions)!

<Cards>
  <Card
    href="/docs/headless/page-conventions"
    title="Page Structure"
    description="Learn how to structure your pages"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/internationalization"
    title="Learn I18n"
    description="Learn how to implement I18n"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/theme"
    title="Theming"
    description="Add themes to Fumadocs UI"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/manual-installation"
    title="Manual Installation"
    description="Create fumadocs app from scratch"
  />
</Cards>

Commit message:

Docs: Improve Tailwind CSS issues FAQ

apps/docs/content/docs/ui/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick Start
description: Getting Started with Fumadocs
icon: Album
---

## Introduction

Fumadocs can be broken down into two parts: Core and UI.

**Core** handles most of the logic, from search functionality, to MDX plugins.

**Fumadocs UI**, the official user interface for Fumadocs.

### Terminology

For a better understanding of the docs, there are some common terminologies you should know:

**Content Source:** The source of your content, for example, Fumadocs MDX, MDXTS and ContentLayer are examples of content source.

**Page Tree:** A tree of all the pages, separators and folders. It is essential for navigation elements. See [Page Tree](/docs/headless/page-tree).

You might need to be familiar with Next.js App Router to continue.

## Automatic Installation

Create a new app with `create-fumadocs-app`.

<InstallTabs items={['npm', 'pnpm', 'yarn', 'bun']}>
    <Tab value='npm'>

```bash
npx create-fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value="pnpm">

```bash
pnpm create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value='yarn'>

```bash
yarn create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>
    <Tab value='bun'>

```bash
bun create fumadocs-app
```

    </Tab>

</InstallTabs>

It will initialize a new fumadocs app, now you can start hacking!

### Enjoy!

Now, create your first mdx file in the docs folder.

```mdx title="content/docs/index.mdx"
---
title: Hello World
---

## Yo what's up
```

Run the app in development mode and see http://localhost:3000/docs.

```package-install
npm run dev
```

### FAQ

<Accordions>
    <Accordion id='why-fumadocs-ui' title="Why Fumadocs UI?">

        Feel free to open the demo in CodeSandbox and see if it suits you.

        - Many built-in components
        - Integrations with Typescript Twoslash, OpenAPI, Math
        - Flexible and Fast by default
        - Built on App Router
        - Use it in an existing Next.js project, without refactoring anything.
    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-monorepo-styling' title="How to fix stylings not being applied in Monorepo?">

        Sometimes, `fumadocs-ui` is not installed in the workspace of your Tailwind CSS configuration file. (e.g. a monorepo setup).

        When using the official Tailwind CSS plugin, it will not be able to find the files from `fumadocs-ui`
        package which contains all styling.

        To fix this, edit the Tailwind CSS configuration and replace `./node_modules` with `../../node_modules` in the `content` section.

        ```diff
        export default {
          content: [
        -   './node_modules/fumadocs-ui/dist/**/*.js',
        +   '../../node_modules/fumadocs-ui/dist/**/*.js',
            './components/**/*.{ts,tsx}',
            ...
          ],
        }
        ```

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-supports-color' title="How to fix 'supports-color' error?">

        If you got this error:

        ```
        Module not found: Can't resolve 'supports-color' in '.../node_modules/debug/src'
        ```

        This error sometimes appear when you are using ContentLayer, usually installing `supports-color@8.1.1` can fix the problem.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='fix-dot-map-error' title="How to fix '@/.map' error?">

        If you are using Fumadocs MDX, the `.map.ts` file will be generated automatically once you start the dev server.

        For more information, see [Setup Guide](/docs/mdx).

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='dynamic-route' title="It uses Dynamic Route, will it be poor in performance?">

        Next.js turns dynamic route into static routes when `generateStaticParams` is configured.
        Hence, it is as fast as static pages.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='blog-usage' title="Can I use it for Blog?">

        The answer is yes.

        Fumadocs is built for documentation sites, yet, it is very flexible.
        You can re-use the typography styles and leverage its built-in remark/rehype plugins.
        Check our [blog](/blog), it is also built with Fumadocs.

    </Accordion>
    <Accordion id='pronunciation' title='How to say Fumadocs?'>
        Fumadocs (Foo-ma docs).
    </Accordion>

</Accordions>

### Demo

Open in [CodeSandbox](https://githubbox.com/fuma-nama/fumadocs-ui-template).

## Learn More

New to here? Don't worry, we are welcome for your questions.

If you find anything confusing, please give your feedback on [Github Discussion](https://github.com/fuma-nama/fumadocs/discussions)!

<Cards>
  <Card
    href="/docs/headless/page-conventions"
    title="Page Structure"
    description="Learn how to structure your pages"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/internationalization"
    title="Learn I18n"
    description="Learn how to implement I18n"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/theme"
    title="Theming"
    description="Add themes to Fumadocs UI"
  />
  <Card
    href="/docs/ui/manual-installation"
    title="Manual Installation"
    description="Create fumadocs app from scratch"
  />
</Cards>
