apps/docs/content/docs/ui/(integrations)/openapi/configurations.mdx, before:

---
title: Configurations
description: Customise Fumadocs OpenAPI
---

## File Generator

Pass options to the `generateFiles` function.

### Input

An array of input files.
Allowed:

- File Paths
- External URLs
- Wildcard

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./unkey.json'],
});
```

On Next.js server, the schema is dynamically fetched when the `APIPage` component renders.

<Callout type='warn' title='For Vercel'>

    If the schema is passed as a file path, ensure the page **will not** be re-rendered after build.

</Callout>

### Output

Path to the output directory.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  output: '/content/docs',
});
```

### Per

Customise how the page is generated, default to `operation`.

| mode      | Generate a page for                 |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| tag       | each tag                            |
| file      | each schema                         |
| operation | each operation (method of endpoint) |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  per: 'tag',
});
```

### Group By

In `operation` mode, you can group output files with folders.

| Group by | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| tag      | `{tag}/{page}.mdx` (Each operation can only contain `1` tag) |
| route    | `{api-endpoint}/{page}.mdx`                                  |
| none     | `{page}.mdx` (default)                                       |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  per: 'operation',
  groupBy: 'tag',
});
```

### Name

A function that controls the output path of files.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  name: (type, file) => {
    return; // filename
  },
});
```

### Imports

Add additional imports on the top of MDX files.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  imports: [
    {
      names: ['Component1', 'Component2'],
      from: '@/components/ui/api',
    },
  ],
});
```

### Frontmatter

Customise the frontmatter of MDX files.

By default, it includes:

| property      | description                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `title`       | Page title                                       |
| `description` | Page description                                 |
| `full`        | Always true, added for Fumadocs UI               |
| `method`      | Available method of operation (`operation` mode) |
| `route`       | Route of operation (`operation` mode)            |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./petstore.yaml'],
  output: './content/docs',
  frontmatter: (title, description) => ({
    myProperty: 'hello',
  }),
});
```

### Add Generated Comment

Add a comment to the top of generated files indicating they are auto-generated.

| Value    | Description                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `true`   | Adds a standardized comment (default) |
| `false`  | No comment is added                   |
| `string` | Adds the provided custom comment      |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./petstore.yaml'],
  output: './content/docs',
  // Add default comment
  addGeneratedComment: true,

  // Or provide a custom comment
  addGeneratedComment: 'Custom auto-generated comment',

  // Or disable comments
  addGeneratedComment: false,
});
```

Default standardized comment content:

```
This file was auto-generated by Fuma Docs.
Do not edit this file directly. Any changes should be made by running the generation command again.
```

This content is added as YAML comments at the top of the frontmatter:

```mdx
---
# This file was auto-generated by Fuma Docs.
# Do not edit this file directly. Any changes should be made by running the generation command again.
title: Pet Store API
description: A sample Pet Store API
full: true
_openapi:
  toc: []
  structuredData:
    headings: []
    contents: []
---
```

<Callout type="info">
  When providing a custom comment, special YAML characters (`:#[]{}`) will be
  automatically removed to prevent formatting issues in the generated files.
</Callout>

### Tag Display Name

Adding `x-displayName` to OpenAPI Schema can control the display name of your tags.

```yaml title="openapi.yaml"
tags:
  - name: test
    description: this is a tag.
    x-displayName: My Test Name
```

## OpenAPI Server

The server to render pages.

### Generate Code Samples

Generate custom code samples for each API endpoint.

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  generateCodeSamples(endpoint) {
    return [
      {
        lang: 'js',
        label: 'JavaScript SDK',
        source: "console.log('hello')",
      },
    ];
  },
});
```

In addition, you can also specify code samples via OpenAPI schema.

```yaml
paths:
  /plants:
    get:
      x-codeSamples:
        - lang: js
          label: JavaScript SDK
          source: |
            const planter = require('planter');
            planter.list({ unwatered: true });
```

#### Disable Code Sample

You can disable the code sample for a specific language, for example, to disable cURL:

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  generateCodeSamples(endpoint) {
    return [
      {
        lang: 'curl',
        label: 'cURL',
        source: false,
      },
    ];
  },
});
```

### Renderer

Customise components in the page.

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  renderer: {
    Root(props) {
      // your own (server) component
    },
  },
});
```

## Advanced

### Using API Page

> This is not a public API, use it carefully.

To use the `APIPage` component in your MDX files:

```mdx
---
title: Delete Api
full: true
---

<APIPage
  document="./unkey.json"
  operations={[{ path: '/v1/apis.deleteApi', method: 'post' }]}
  hasHead={false}
/>
```

| Prop         | Description                               |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `document`   | OpenAPI Schema                            |
| `operations` | Operations (API endpoints) to be rendered |
| `hasHead`    | Enable to render the heading of operation |

Commit message:

use mdx style format below the frontmatter

apps/docs/content/docs/ui/(integrations)/openapi/configurations.mdx, after:

---
title: Configurations
description: Customise Fumadocs OpenAPI
---

## File Generator

Pass options to the `generateFiles` function.

### Input

An array of input files.
Allowed:

- File Paths
- External URLs
- Wildcard

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./unkey.json'],
});
```

On Next.js server, the schema is dynamically fetched when the `APIPage` component renders.

<Callout type='warn' title='For Vercel'>

    If the schema is passed as a file path, ensure the page **will not** be re-rendered after build.

</Callout>

### Output

Path to the output directory.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  output: '/content/docs',
});
```

### Per

Customise how the page is generated, default to `operation`.

| mode      | Generate a page for                 |
| --------- | ----------------------------------- |
| tag       | each tag                            |
| file      | each schema                         |
| operation | each operation (method of endpoint) |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  per: 'tag',
});
```

### Group By

In `operation` mode, you can group output files with folders.

| Group by | Description                                                  |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| tag      | `{tag}/{page}.mdx` (Each operation can only contain `1` tag) |
| route    | `{api-endpoint}/{page}.mdx`                                  |
| none     | `{page}.mdx` (default)                                       |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  per: 'operation',
  groupBy: 'tag',
});
```

### Name

A function that controls the output path of files.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  name: (type, file) => {
    return; // filename
  },
});
```

### Imports

Add additional imports on the top of MDX files.

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  imports: [
    {
      names: ['Component1', 'Component2'],
      from: '@/components/ui/api',
    },
  ],
});
```

### Frontmatter

Customise the frontmatter of MDX files.

By default, it includes:

| property      | description                                      |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `title`       | Page title                                       |
| `description` | Page description                                 |
| `full`        | Always true, added for Fumadocs UI               |
| `method`      | Available method of operation (`operation` mode) |
| `route`       | Route of operation (`operation` mode)            |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./petstore.yaml'],
  output: './content/docs',
  frontmatter: (title, description) => ({
    myProperty: 'hello',
  }),
});
```

### Add Generated Comment

Add a comment to the top of generated files indicating they are auto-generated.

| Value    | Description                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------- |
| `true`   | Adds a standardized comment (default) |
| `false`  | No comment is added                   |
| `string` | Adds the provided custom comment      |

```ts
import { generateFiles } from 'fumadocs-openapi';

void generateFiles({
  input: ['./petstore.yaml'],
  output: './content/docs',
  // Add default comment
  addGeneratedComment: true,

  // Or provide a custom comment
  addGeneratedComment: 'Custom auto-generated comment',

  // Or disable comments
  addGeneratedComment: false,
});
```

Default standardized comment content:

```
This file was auto-generated by Fuma Docs.
Do not edit this file directly. Any changes should be made by running the generation command again.
```

This content is added as MDX comments below the frontmatter:

```mdx
---
title: Pet Store API
description: A sample Pet Store API
full: true
_openapi:
  toc: []
  structuredData:
    headings: []
    contents: []
---
{/* This file was auto-generated by Fuma Docs.
Do not edit this file directly. Any changes should be made by running the generation command again. */}
```

<Callout type="info">
  When providing a custom comment that includes MDX comment closing sequences (`-->`), they will be automatically escaped to prevent formatting issues in the generated files.
</Callout>

### Tag Display Name

Adding `x-displayName` to OpenAPI Schema can control the display name of your tags.

```yaml title="openapi.yaml"
tags:
  - name: test
    description: this is a tag.
    x-displayName: My Test Name
```

## OpenAPI Server

The server to render pages.

### Generate Code Samples

Generate custom code samples for each API endpoint.

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  generateCodeSamples(endpoint) {
    return [
      {
        lang: 'js',
        label: 'JavaScript SDK',
        source: "console.log('hello')",
      },
    ];
  },
});
```

In addition, you can also specify code samples via OpenAPI schema.

```yaml
paths:
  /plants:
    get:
      x-codeSamples:
        - lang: js
          label: JavaScript SDK
          source: |
            const planter = require('planter');
            planter.list({ unwatered: true });
```

#### Disable Code Sample

You can disable the code sample for a specific language, for example, to disable cURL:

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  generateCodeSamples(endpoint) {
    return [
      {
        lang: 'curl',
        label: 'cURL',
        source: false,
      },
    ];
  },
});
```

### Renderer

Customise components in the page.

```ts
import { createOpenAPI } from 'fumadocs-openapi/server';

export const openapi = createOpenAPI({
  renderer: {
    Root(props) {
      // your own (server) component
    },
  },
});
```

## Advanced

### Using API Page

> This is not a public API, use it carefully.

To use the `APIPage` component in your MDX files:

```mdx
---
title: Delete Api
full: true
---

<APIPage
  document="./unkey.json"
  operations={[{ path: '/v1/apis.deleteApi', method: 'post' }]}
  hasHead={false}
/>
```

| Prop         | Description                               |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------- |
| `document`   | OpenAPI Schema                            |
| `operations` | Operations (API endpoints) to be rendered |
| `hasHead`    | Enable to render the heading of operation |
